# HTTP-Server
#### Video Demo: TODO
#### Description:
This project consists of a simple HTTP server coded in C. It handles GET and POST.

## server.c
We start by creating a server-side socket with `socket()`, which returns a file descriptor referring to that socket. It is a stream socket: it uses TCP and IPv4 to communicate. If the creation of this socket fails, the program stops. We then create two `sockaddr_in` structures that are structures adapted to the address family that the socket uses, which is `AF_INET`. We initialize the variables of only one of those structures, the one that will be used for assigning an address to the socket. But before initializing the structure, we fill it with zeros by using `memset()` so its `sin_zero` padding is filled with zeros in order to avoid garbage values, which could lead to unpredictable and non-portable behavior. After, we set this structure's address family to `AF_INET`, its port on 8080 by using `htons()`, which converts the port number to network byte order (i. e., big-endian), and its IP address to `INADDR_ANY` so the server accepts connections on all its local IPs. Now, we can use `bind()` to assign the address specified by the structure that we have just initialized to the socket, and stop the program if the binding fails. After that, we put the socket in waiting mode for incoming connections by using `listen()` and setting to 50 the maximum length to which the queue of pending connections for the socket may grow. I have chosen this number because it seems relatively enough for the scale of the server. If `listen()` fails, the program stops.

It is now time for the server loop to come into play. The following takes place in a continuous `while` loop. The `accept()` function extracts the first connection request on the queue of pending connections for the listening socket, creates a new connected socket for the client, and returns a file descriptor referring to that socket. The `sockaddr_in` structure that this function takes as an argument is filled by the OS. On error, the program does not stop because the server should not shut down when a client fails to connect. Instead, we use `continue` to directly end the current iteration of the `while` loop. Thereafter, we have a `do while` loop through which we receive a message from the client socket via `recv()`, which returns the length in bytes of the message stored in the buffer to the variable `temp_received`. If `recv()` returned a number greater than zero, we add up this number to the variable `data_received` which keeps track of all the data returned to the buffer. We use `memmem()` to check whether `\r\n\r\n`, the four characters with which the request's headers end, are present in the data returned by `recv()` in the current iteration. If they are not and the buffer is not full, the loop repeats and the new data coming is appended to the buffer. The loop keeps repeating until these four characters are found or the buffer is full, in which case we reject the request because it could be malformed headers or an attack, close the connection, and `continue`. If `recv()` fails and `errno` is set to `EINTR`, it means that the function was interrupted so the loop repeats in order to retry `recv()`. On other errors, we close the client socket because it usually means the connection is no longer reliable. We then display the request in the terminal window by using a loop that goes through the buffer of `recv()` _n_ times where _n_ is the length of the data.

After receiving the request, the server sends a response via `send()`. To do so, we again have a `do while` loop whose role is to retry the function if it returns -1 and `errno` is set to `EINTR`, and to close the connected socket on other errors. After all of that, we can now properly close the connection by closing the connected socket.
